README.md, before:

# A Philosophy of Software Design

Notes on the book A Philosophy of Software Design, John K, Ousterhout, Yaknyam Press (2021).

## Book Details

**Title** A Philosophy of Software Design  
**Author** John K. Ousterhout  
**Publisher** Yaknyam Press, 2021  
**Length** 190 Pages  

## Motivation For Reading

Book is about the bigger picture of software design which to this day is a topic not often covered in literature or courses, despite being important for efficient software development. 

The book have generally been well received and it being short it seems obvious that it is worth the time to read this book.

## Red Flags

List of topics that the author calls red flags, that should be avoided in the code base.

### &#x1F6A9; Shallow Module &#x1F6A9;

> A shallow module is one whose interface is complicated relative to the functionality it provides. Shallow modules don’t help much in the battle against complexity, because the benefit they provide (not having to learn about how they work internally) is negated by the cost of learning and using their interfaces. Small modules tend to be shallow.

Shallow modules is an indication of design that could be improved upon. The complicated interface increases the time it takes to learn how to use the module. Shallow modules also tend to leak information about the underlying implementation that can create coupling, making it impossible to refactor the module without also having to refactor all the modules that use the module.

### &#x1F6A9; Implementation Documentation Contaminates Interface &#x1F6A9;

> This red flag is raised when documentation for an interface contains information about the implementation, not required to be known to use the interface.

In C typically this occurs when the documentation of a function describes how a function does things. The documentation of the function shall be limited to what high level description what the function does, how to use, and describe possible side-effects.

### &#x1F6A9; Information Leakage &#x1F6A9;

> Information leakage occurs when the same knowledge is used in multiple places, such as two different classes that both understand the format of a particular type of file.

This is probably very common existing code bases that I have worked with but did not understand that this is a problem. Need to be on the look-out for this and ensure to avoid it. Can see now how this hampers maintainability by introducing a hidden dependency between the classes.

### &#x1F6A9; Temporal Decomposition ### &#x1F6A9;

> In temporal decomposition, execution order is reflected in the code structure: operations that happen at different times are in different methods or classes. If the same knowledge is used at different points in execution, it gets encoded in multiple places, resulting in information leakage.

The word temporal relates to something time-related, like in which order something occurs in time. Example of temporal decomposition is to have one class that provides a interface to open a connection to something and then have the closing of the connection in another class. This should be avoided, both open and close of the connection belongs to the same class. That open and close occurs in different point in time does not matter.

### &#x1F6A9; Repetition ### &#x1F6A9;

> A similar piece of code appearing over and over again indicates room for improvement of abstractions.

The code can be broken out to a function to resolve this issue. Another way to resolve this can be to have `goto` statement. Even if `goto` should generally be avoided so can it be useful for error handling, making it possible to separate the normal flow of the code from error handling parts.

### &#x1F6A9; Conjoined Functions ### &#x1F6A9;

> A function shall be possible to understand in isolation.

If you can't understand the implementation of one function without also understanding the implementation of another, there is a problem with the design.

### &#x1F6A9; Overexposure &#x1F6A9;

> If the API for a commonly used feature forces users to learn about other
features that are rarely used, this increases the cognitive load on users who
don’t need the rarely used features.

Overexposure can be avoided by not even letting to user chose obscure options and instead just automatically set a default, the most commonly used option. This will limit the number of parameters of the function. There can then be a separate function change the default options if needed, intended to be invoked in advanced use cases.

### Terms

#### E

##### Exception Masking

Handling an exception at the lower layer is known **exception masking**, the exception is hidden from the upper layers. Error correcting codes that can detect that a bit have been corrupted during transfer and flip it back is an example.

Commit message:

Add notes on the vague names red flag.

README.md, after:

# A Philosophy of Software Design

Notes on the book A Philosophy of Software Design, John K, Ousterhout, Yaknyam Press (2021).

## Book Details

**Title** A Philosophy of Software Design  
**Author** John K. Ousterhout  
**Publisher** Yaknyam Press, 2021  
**Length** 190 Pages  

## Motivation For Reading

Book is about the bigger picture of software design which to this day is a topic not often covered in literature or courses, despite being important for efficient software development. 

The book have generally been well received and it being short it seems obvious that it is worth the time to read this book.

## Red Flags

List of topics that the author calls red flags, that should be avoided in the code base.

### &#x1F6A9; Shallow Module &#x1F6A9;

> A shallow module is one whose interface is complicated relative to the functionality it provides. Shallow modules don’t help much in the battle against complexity, because the benefit they provide (not having to learn about how they work internally) is negated by the cost of learning and using their interfaces. Small modules tend to be shallow.

Shallow modules is an indication of design that could be improved upon. The complicated interface increases the time it takes to learn how to use the module. Shallow modules also tend to leak information about the underlying implementation that can create coupling, making it impossible to refactor the module without also having to refactor all the modules that use the module.

### &#x1F6A9; Implementation Documentation Contaminates Interface &#x1F6A9;

> This red flag is raised when documentation for an interface contains information about the implementation, not required to be known to use the interface.

In C typically this occurs when the documentation of a function describes how a function does things. The documentation of the function shall be limited to what high level description what the function does, how to use, and describe possible side-effects.

### &#x1F6A9; Information Leakage &#x1F6A9;

> Information leakage occurs when the same knowledge is used in multiple places, such as two different classes that both understand the format of a particular type of file.

This is probably very common existing code bases that I have worked with but did not understand that this is a problem. Need to be on the look-out for this and ensure to avoid it. Can see now how this hampers maintainability by introducing a hidden dependency between the classes.

### &#x1F6A9; Temporal Decomposition ### &#x1F6A9;

> In temporal decomposition, execution order is reflected in the code structure: operations that happen at different times are in different methods or classes. If the same knowledge is used at different points in execution, it gets encoded in multiple places, resulting in information leakage.

The word temporal relates to something time-related, like in which order something occurs in time. Example of temporal decomposition is to have one class that provides a interface to open a connection to something and then have the closing of the connection in another class. This should be avoided, both open and close of the connection belongs to the same class. That open and close occurs in different point in time does not matter.

### &#x1F6A9; Repetition ### &#x1F6A9;

> A similar piece of code appearing over and over again indicates room for improvement of abstractions.

The code can be broken out to a function to resolve this issue. Another way to resolve this can be to have `goto` statement. Even if `goto` should generally be avoided so can it be useful for error handling, making it possible to separate the normal flow of the code from error handling parts.

### &#x1F6A9; Conjoined Functions ### &#x1F6A9;

> A function shall be possible to understand in isolation.

If you can't understand the implementation of one function without also understanding the implementation of another, there is a problem with the design.

### &#x1F6A9; Overexposure &#x1F6A9;

> If the API for a commonly used feature forces users to learn about other
features that are rarely used, this increases the cognitive load on users who
don’t need the rarely used features.

Overexposure can be avoided by not even letting to user chose obscure options and instead just automatically set a default, the most commonly used option. This will limit the number of parameters of the function. There can then be a separate function change the default options if needed, intended to be invoked in advanced use cases.

### &#x1F6A9; Vague Name &#x1F6A9;

> A broad vague name that can mean many things hampers the readability of the code. Can lead to bugs and makes it harder to maintain the code.

Examples of vague names `x`, `data`, `ok`, and `error`.

Vague names can be worked away by coming up with a more specific name, using two or three words:

- `x` -> `lineNumber`
- `data` -> `temperatureInCelsius`
- `ok` -> `temperatureWithinRange`
-  `error` -> `fileNotFound`

### Terms

#### E

##### Exception Masking

Handling an exception at the lower layer is known **exception masking**, the exception is hidden from the upper layers. Error correcting codes that can detect that a bit have been corrupted during transfer and flip it back is an example.
